The traditional approach to EPD \citep[{\it e.g.,}][]{Pal_2009,bakos_2010,zhang_precision_2016}
is to fit and subtract a model of the form

\begin{equation}
  m = {\rm const.} + \sum_i c_i \theta_i,
  \label{eq:classical_EPD}
\end{equation}

where $\vec{\theta}$ is a vector of parameters such as the shape parameters
$(s,d,k)$, their products $(s^2, s\cdot d, d^2, \ldots)$, the temperature $T$
of the CCDs, the centroid positions $(x,y)$, perhaps the fractional part of the
centroid positions $(\{x\},\{y\})$, and other parameters that are expected to
correlate strongly with the observed flux.  The coefficients $c_i$ are
calculated through linear least-squares, and subtracted to produce ``EPD''
lightcurves.

The premise of this model is that the correlations between the magnitudes and
these external parameters are linear.  For ground-based CCD data (e.g., HATNet,
HATS, and Nikon DSLR), \citet{bakos_2010} and \citet{zhang_precision_2016}
have verified that this model is a reasonable fit to the data.

For TESS, we investigated whether fitting such a linear model would be useful.
We considered the parameters mentioned above, as well as the measured
background level.  We then examined scatter plots of each parameter, as a
function of all the other parameters.  We also examined plots of each parameter
as a function of time.

A few prominent trends were present.

\begin{enumerate}

\item {\it Flux vs. time}. Most of the lightcurves we examined did not show
particularly exceptional time-variability, except for a secular drift with
amplitude $0.01\,{\rm mag}$ over the timescale of each orbit.  Sharper trends
(``hooks'') at the beginning of each orbit seemed to be less prominent for stars
at the corners of the fields than stars at the center.  The periodicity
incurred by the 2.5$\,{\rm day}$ momentum-dumps was also noticeable in more of
the lightcurves at the center of the field than at the corners.

\item {\it Flux vs. centroid positions}. The flux as a function of centroid
position often showed non-linear ``hooks'' (see Figure XXX). Most of the data
points from a given orbit reside at a given level, but about 10\% are in a
tail. This was seen in lightcurves all across the TESS field of view.

\item {\it Flux vs. temperature} exhibited similar hooks, with most of the
flux values residing at a particular level, and perhaps 10\% following a
non-linear path (often resembling the Nike ``swoosh'') away from the bulk of
points.

\item {\it Flux vs. shape parameters}.  For lightcurves in the corner of the
field of view, similar hooks are present in flux {\it vs.} $(s,d,k)$, though
the hooks are less sharp.  In the center of the field of view, gaussian
ellipses are a better description of the flux {\it vs.} the shape parameters.
    
\end{enumerate}

Considering the timeseries of parameters other than flux:

\begin{enumerate}

\item {\it Centroid positions vs. time}.  The main variability in the centroid
positions as a function of time is a secular drift, that is reset every orbit.
The 2.5 day momentum wheel dump is superimposed on this secular drift, and has
smaller amplitude than the drift.

\item {\it Temperature vs. time}.  The main variability in temperature {\it
vs.} time is a secular drift of the same timescale as that for the centroid
positions timeseries.

\item {\it Shape parameters vs. time}.  The main variability in the shape
parameters as a function of time is the 2.5 day momentum wheel dump
periodicity, with hooks before each momentum dump.

\item {\it Background value vs. time}.  The variability in background value
{\it vs.} time is different.  There is a strong spike at the end of the sector.
From examining full frame image movies, this corresponds to the incidence of
scattered light from the Earth or Moon entering the frame.

\end{enumerate}

Given the characteristics of the variability, a linear model of the form given
in Equation~\ref{eq:classical_EPD} is not applicable.  To fit out the
correlations between flux and parameters which most commonly exhibited
``hooks'', we explored fitting a parametric open curve (an $N$-dimensional
B-spline \citealt{Dierckx_1993}) to the flux, centroid positions, and
temperatures simultaneously.  We selected the number of knots through
brute-force, by calculating $\chi^2$ for the model fit of a grid of knots, and
minimizing the Bayesian Information Criterion.  Though this approach showed
some initial promise, even with ``optimal'' knot-selection (in the BIC sense)
it introduced undesirable residuals in the lightcurves, and also distorted
transits.


