------------------------------------------
OMITTED TIMES

Using the Vanderspek+ data release notes for each sector, we gauged the
following times (TJD) to either suffer excessive amounts of scattered
Earth/Moon light, or else to not be viable for the listed reasons:

badtimewindows:

    (1517.34150, 1517.39566), # sector 8 orbit 23 camera 1 attitude control
    (1529.06510, 1535.00264), # sector 8 gap + attitude + instr anomaly 23->24
    (1543.21648, 1543.75080), # sector 9 camera 1 attitude control issues
    (1555.54148, 1557.00080), # sector 9 downlink, btwn orbits 25->26
    (1569.43176, 1570.87620), # sector 10 orbit 27 "strong scattered light"
    (1581.78453, 1584.72342), # sector 10 downlink + "strong scattered light"
    (1609.69425, 1610.77620), # sector 11 downlink, btwn orbits 29->30
    (1638.99562, 1640.03312), # sector 12 downlink, btwn orbits 31->32


------------------------------------------
SECTOR-SPECIFIC NOTES

----------
sector 10:

cam3, ccd3 (internal projid 1574): the photometry suffered serious "flux jumps"
(i.e. the magnitudes being measured on the same star jumped betweeen different
frames) under the initial reduction, likely due to a defective kernel solution.
This may have been caused by the heavily saturated star, or its bleed trail.
For this CCD, we switched from the "i/2;d3/2" kernel to "i/0", i.e., omitting
the convolution step entirely.  The resulting movies show slightly different
background level artifacts, and the light curves show spikes once per orbit.
These spikes can be easily "sigma-clipped", and otherwise the reduction's
quality is satisfactory.


----------
sector 9:

no major points to note.


----------
sector 8:

cam4 ccd3 (internal projid 1546) IRM magnitudes of all stars increased by about
~0.2 mag over the course of about 20 exposures beginning at BJD 2458522, and
returned to standard brightnesses around 245826.  A similar jump happened
shortly after the instrument anomaly. The intermediate times (i.e., BJD 2458522
- 245826) were stable.  Nonetheless the transition happens over the course of
  ~20 exposures, and in our initial reduction was poorly corrected by PCA and
TFA.  Most quality diagnostics for this CCD, which operate on the TFA light
curves, correspondingly failed.

For this CCD, we switched from the "i/2;d3/2" kernel to "i/0", i.e., omitting
the convolution step entirely. While the issue of this "transition jump" of the
baseline flux remained, the TFA cotrending was able to correct the majority of
the issue. 

The cause of this jump is unclear. The DRN (Vanderpsek+2018) suggests issues in
the smear correction caused by beta Doradus being in the upper serial register
may be responsible.
