The lack of Orion stars will probably be a common feature to any nearby young star forming region.

Like:
the rho ophiucus complex.
vel OB2
sco cen
... ANY OTHER FAMOUS ONES?

these could be PRIME targets for exoplanet searches.

==========================================
Kounkel & Covey (2019) write:

"It should be reiterated, however that there is a great degree of complexity in
the physical and kinematical structure even in the young star forming regions.
While they can be roughly broken apart into smaller components of varying
densities that may evolve separately over time, they are fundamentally formed
from the same parental cloud complex, and many of these divisions may be
somewhat arbitrary. In Orion, for example, the Complex can be subdivided into
individual clouds; each cloud can then be subdivided into individual clusters
and diffuse regions; the clusters themselves may be subdivided into subclusters
and other notable features (Kounkel et al. 2018). There is no unique method
with which all of the different scales of structure could be split into
individual components, and the boundaries between them are fuzzy (e.g., Beccari
et al. 2017; Zari et al. 2017; Gro√üschedl et al. 2018; Kuhn et al. 2019; Getman
et al.  2019; Chen et al. 2019). This may also the case for many of the
individual groups identified in this work, as will be discussed in later
sections"

==========================================
They also write: 

Locally, "evolved" non-clustered moving groups have been kinematically
identified. Eg., TW Hya, Tu Hor, AB Dor, Ursa Major (Faherty+2018, Bell+2015
...)

They ask:

Could DR2 give kinematics needed to extend the MG census to larger distances?

They note:

"The final catalog totals 1,901 individual groups consisting of 288,370 stars
(Table 1). Combined, these 288K sources that were grouped together represent
less than 1.5% of the ‚àº20 million stars in the original Gaia DR2 input catalog.
The average properties of the resulting groups (further processed as described
in Section 4; hereafter named ‚ÄúTheia‚Äù), are given in Table 2."

Comparing this catalog to the catalog of open clusters identified in Gaia DR2
by Cantat-Gaudin et al. (2018), we recover 198 clusters out of 208 that are
located within 1 kpc; within those we recover 73% of the sources identified as
members of those clusters. However, the catalog presented in this work is
significantly more sensitive to the extended structure, recovering not only
gravitationally bound clusters, but also a number of comoving groups and
associations, most of which have not been previously known (Figure 2).

We estimate that as much as 5‚Äì10% of the population inside of the identified
groups may be contamination, consisting of field stars that have kinematics
similar to those of the underlying cluster. Additionally, while it is difficult
to estimate the precise fraction, there may also be some number of groups
consisting of unrelated stars that appear to be co-moving. Their fraction is
expected to increase at larger distances. RVs from Gaia can confirm some of the
structures, particularly those that are extended, such as those described in
Section 4.  However, as Gaia does not have RVs for all the stars in the Theia
catalog, and the uncertainties for the existing measurements are large, it is
difficult to determine which one of the more compact groups are real and which
one are spurious. Future spectroscopic follow-up would be needed to distinguish
between them based on coherence in RV and chemical composition. Nonetheless,
even ‚Äúfake‚Äù clusters can be used as tracers of the underlying structure and
kinematics of the extended solar neighborhood
