Hi Joel and Josh,

After a bit of poking around on the reddening issue for the CDIPS planet
candidates (and for the Rstar values in general, since this affects which
objects we consider "candidates"), it seems like TICv8 has done a pretty good
job incorporating reddening.

Up until this point, I had been using the Gaia Apsis pipeline output, described
by Andrae+2018.  Their stellar radii are noted in that paper to be inconsistent
with their extinction estimates, and as we discussed the radii are probably not
great for CDIPS target stars in the galactic plane. To get Rstar, they also
assume distance = 1/parallax, which isn't great.

TICv8 uses extinction coefficients from Schlegel+98 for declinations<-30, else
from Green+18 (Pan-STARRS). They get Teff from Gaia dereddened colors. Then
stellar radii are calculated over Teff = 3300K - 12000K, using the Bailer-Jones
geometric distance, Teff, G - A_G, and a BC_G vs Teff relation that they made.

This latter approach seems better.  One caveat is that they capped E(B-V) at
2.5 from the Schlegel maps. So anything with more than A_V=7.8 mag does not get
TIC stellar parameters.

A different idea that we had discussed was collecting as much broad-band
photometry as possible (perhaps also from the TIC), and then fitting SEDs to
get F_bol and T_eff, as in Stassun+2017.  The extinction is left as a free
parameter in this case.  If the fits produce a poor chi^2, they can be flagged
as unreliable for the resulting stellar parameters.

To the extent possible TICv8 reports Johnson BV (Tycho or UCAC4 or APASS,
varies), griz (SDSS), JHK (2MASS), W1-4 (ALLWISE), and Gaia GRpBp. Going this
path might not be too bad, since the photometry are available.  So part of me
wonders why the TIC team didn't go the SED fitting path to begin with though...

Anyway -- what say you both? Try the TICv8 stellar radii first? Or go the
SED-fitting path?

Thanks for any ideas!  Luke

PS: verbose descriptions of Andrae+2018 and Stassun+2019's TICv8 paper are
below, in case you care to know how these two different catalogs get the
parameters in more detail.


----------------------------

Andrae+2018 worked with G<17 stars. They estimated Teff using only the three
Gaia photometric bands, without including any knowledge of the extinction. They
fitted relations between the two using only stars with spectroscopic Teffs,
that were thought to have low extinction.

Separately, they estimated the amount of G-band extinction, A_G, for a subset
of stars (unclear what subset, to me), by using the G,Bp,Rp magnitudes and
parallax and "a machine learning algorithm" trained on synthetic spectra. To
get the reddening, E(Bp-Rp), they play a similar game.

For the absolute G-band magnitude, they use M_G = G - 5 log10(r) + 5 - A_G,

where the distance r is taken to be the inverse of parallax.  This is only done
if parallax SNR is greater than 5.  With the luminosity and temperature, they
then use the Stefan-Boltzmann law to get stellar radii.  Of 161 million stars
with Teff estimates, this gave 77 million radii.

They note in the text that their individual extinction estimates are poor for
most stars, and because of this they set A_G = 0 in the equation above. So
their Teff and Rstar values are inconsistent with the extinction and reddening
estimates.

----------------------------

TICv8 gets its stellar parameters as follows.

First, Teff. They crossmatched against all available spectroscopic surveys to
get about 4 million spectroscopic Teffs (about 3 million from LAMOST). If any
given star has one of these, it takes precedence. Else, they fit an empirical
spline to Teff vs deredenned G_Bp - G_Rp color. This gets used with dereddened
Gaia colors, if available, else with just the ordinary Gaia colors.  Their fit
is applicable from 3000 - 15000 K.

How are the extinction coefficients determined then for the dereddening?  For
declinations > -30, with the Pan-STARRS dust maps, which uses sky coordinates +
distance. For the rest, with the Schlegel+ 1998 map, but also with a distance
correction.  So for Sectors 6 & 7, Schlegel is used for almost all the stars.

To validate the extinction maps for internal consistency, TICv8 compared E(B-V)
for a random selection of ~4e6 stars. About 1% had E(B-V) values disagreed by
more than 2.5 mag, so they capped E(B-V) at 2.5, if it was drawn from the
Schlegel map  (requiring A_V < 7.8).  For these cases, they did not attempt to
derive stellar parameters.

For the issue of converting from E(B-V) to E(G_Bp - G_Rp), which I had wondered
about earlier, they integrate a PHOENIX model spectrum similar to the Sun.
With the Cardelli+ 1989 extinction law, they get E(G_Bp - G_Rp) = 1.31 E(B-V),
and A_G = 2.72 E(B-V).

Finally, to get stellar radii, they use the Stefan-Boltzmann relation, via
T_eff, the Gaia observed G magnitude corrected for extinction (G_obs - A_G),
the geometric distance from Bailer-Jones+2018, and a bolometric correction.

As a reminder, the Bailer-Jones+2018 geometric distances are prior-dominated in
the low parallax SNR limit.

For the bolometric correction in G band, from T_eff=3300-8000K the TIC uses
formulae reported by Andrae+2018, which come from MARCS stellar atmosphere
models.  From 8000-12000 K they use the PHOENIX library of stelar atmosphere
models and fit a spline to BC_G vs T_eff.

Ah, and finally: for stars with Teff and radius below the RGB, and that are not
WDs, masses come from assuming the stars are on the main sequence, and then
interpolating a relation between Teff and mass. logg's follow.

==========================================

We want the planet candidates we report to have the best possible stellar
radii.

This should ideally include some consideration of instellar extinction to the
star, because this makes stars appear redder.

Two possible choices of Rstar sources are available: 1) TICv8 2) Gaia Apsis.

Currently, I've been using (2).

However, quoting Andrae+2018, "We estimate stellar parameters source-by-source,
using only the three Gaia photometric bands (for Te) and additionally the
parallax (for the other four parameters).We do not use any non-Gaia data on the
individual sources, and we do not make use of any global Galactic information,
such as an extinction map or kinematics."

Unsurprisingly, Te is heavily degenerate with AG in the Gaia colours (see Fig.
2), so it seems near impossible that both quantities could be estimated from
only colours. Our experiments confirm this.We work around this by estimating Te
from the colours on the assumption that the star has (ideally) zero
extinction."

...

So basically, the Gaia Apsis stellar radii are not a good match to my stellar
sample. SOMETHING needs to be done about the reddening.

-----

The TIC gets its stellar parameters as follows.  (TICv8)/


For Teff, first priority goes to any spectroscopic catalog xmatches.

Else, if possible, use (3) dereddended Bp-Rp color (column 108, 110); 

Finally, if not, use (4) non-dereddened Bp-Rp color (column 108, 110). 


Where does the reddening come from?  For declinations above -30, PanSTARRS near
all-sky dust maps (Green+2018) Else, Schlegel (1998) map, with """with an
adjustment to the total line-of-sight extinction for distance (from Gaia),
assuming a standard exponential model for the disk with a scale height of 125
pc (see, e.g. Bonifacio et al. 2000)""""

Then they convert between the bandpasses via """ We then used these mean
wavelengths with the Cardelli et al. (1989) extinction law, which yields E(GBP
- GRP) = 1.31E(B-V) and A_G = 2.72E(B-V). We also used this procedure to
determine the relation of E(B-V ) to A_T , the extinction in the TESS bandpass,
for use in calculating the T magnitudes (see Section 2.3.1), which gives: A(T)
= 2:06E(B-V).  """

""" Applying the estimated reddening to the determination of Teff via the
photometric colors has the effect generally of making apparently cool stars
hotter, and that hotter Te in turn has the effect of inferring a larger radius
and mass from our empirical relations described in Section 2.3.5.  """

The RADII are then estimated by using the Stefan-Bolztmann relation.  With
DISTANCES estimated geometrically from Bailer-Jones+ (2018).

-----
