Wed May  5 16:03:26 2021

I've been working today and yesterday on updating the CDIPS target list, to
"v0.5". (Upon publication of Bouma+19, I think we were at 0.2, or 0.3.

The main difference is we're dropping as much pre-Gaia crap as possible, to
keep only the better Gaia info.

We are admittedly considering young stars from SIMBAD, which might introduce
some junk.

We want:

* DR2 source_id

* Cluster name (for bookkeeping purposes only; we no longer care about making
  them unique)

* Age! (can be null, will be for many; but the idea is that most of these
  objects are at least in principle age-dateable).

* Reference id string (also for bookkeeping purposes, this is a string made by me)

* Reference bibcode (from e.g., ADS)

* Ext_catalog_name (deprecated, but keeping for the moving group merges that
  were done in earlier versions)

* dist (ditto).

==========================================
Thu May  6 16:43:19 2021

Relevant thing for the paper:

"""
The \texttt{v0.5} CDIPS target catalog includes some important updates from
previous versions.  As before, we collected membership information for young
and age-dated stars from across the literature.  However, the extent of
analyses performed on the Gaia data at the time of the analysis was sufficient
that we could for the most part neglect pre-Gaia analyses, except in cases for
which spectroscopically confirmed samples of stars had been collected.  We
therefore omit the membership lists of CITET Kharchenko et al 2013 and CITET
Dias et al 2014, and a few others.  In their stead, we adopt a number of new
catalogs, listed in Table~\ref{table:list_of_lists}.  For any of these catalogs
for which Gaia DR2 identifiers were not immediately available, we either
followed the spatial (plus proper-motion) crossmatching procedures described in
CITET Bouma et al 2019, or else we pulled the Gaia DR2 source identifiers
associated with the catalog from SIMBAD.  We consequently opted to drop the
$\texttt{ext_catalog_name}$ and $\texttt{dist}$ columns maintained in CITET
Bouma et al 2019, as these were only populated for a small number of stars.

The most crucial parameters of a given star for our purposes are the Gaia DR2
source identifier ($\texttt{source_id}$), the cluster name
($\texttt{cluster}$), and the ($\texttt{age}$).  Given the hierarchical nature
of many stellar associations, we do not attempt to resolve the cluster names to
a single unique string.  The Orion complex for instance, can be divided into
almost one hundred kinematic subgroups (CITEP Kounkel 2018).  Similar
complexity applies to the problem of determining homogeneous ages, which we do
not attempt to resolve.  Instead, we simply merge the cluster names and ages
reported by various authors together.

This means that our ``age'' column can be null, for cases in which the original
authors did not report an age, and a reference literature age was not readily
available.  Nonetheless, since we do generally prefer stars with known ages, we
made a few additional efforts to populate this column.  When available, the age
provenance is from the original analysis of the cluster.  However, in a few
cases we adopted other ages when the string-based crossmatches on the
``cluster'' name was straightforward.  In particular, we used the ages
determined by CITET CantatGaudin2020b to assign ages to the catalogs from
GaiaCollaboration2018Table1, GaiaCollaboration2018Table2, CantatGaudin2018a,
CastroGinard2020, and CantatGaudin2020a.

The catalogs we included for which ages were not immediately available were
those of CITET CottenSong2016, Oh2017, Zari2018, Gagne2018a, Gagne2018b,
Gagne2018c, and Ujjwal2020.  While in principle the stars discussed by Gagne
2018abc have easily associated ages, our SIMBAD cross-matching lost the moving
group association from those studies, which should therefore be recovered using
BANYAN
$\Sigma$.\footnote{\url{http://www.exoplanetes.umontreal.ca/banyan/banyansigma.php}}.
We also included the HATS and HATNet candidate databases, and SIMBAD object
identifiers $\texttt{TT*}$, $\texttt{Y*O}, $\texttt{Y*?}, $\texttt{TT?}, and
$\texttt{pMS*}.  Finally, we also included every star in the NASA Exoplanet
Archive $\texttt{ps}$ table that had a Gaia identifier available  (CITE Akeson
2013).  If the age had finite uncertainties, we also included it.

The technical manipulations for the merging, cleaning, and joining were
performed using the $\texttt{pandas}$ module (CITE). 
The eventually crossmatch (based on the $\texttt{source_id}$) against the Gaia
DR2 archive was performed asychronously on the Gaia archive
website\footnote{\url{https://gea.esac.esa.int/archive/}}, since the more
common synchronous 
"""



* DR2 source_id

* Cluster name (for bookkeeping purposes only; we no longer care about making
  them unique)

* Age! (can be null, will be for many; but the idea is that most of these
  objects are at least in principle age-dateable).

* Reference id string (also for bookkeeping purposes, this is a string made by me)

* Reference bibcode (from e.g., ADS)

* Ext_catalog_name (deprecated, but keeping for the moving group merges that
  were done in earlier versions)

*
"""
